What do you make, uh, of Elon Musk investing with Tesla,
investing in Bitcoin and maybe broad broaden that out in some of
these other, you know, big billionaires,
but also people tied to major companies investing in Bitcoin.
Yeah, I think Michael sail really led the charge on that. Uh,
so he's the CEO of MicroStrategy that I think they've acquired upwards of 2
billion in Bitcoin now sort acquiring August maybe of 2020.
And he's, you know, personally bought a lot of it.
He bought a lot as a treasurer reserve asset for his company micro
strategy. Then they leveraged up, uh, on a convertible note and bought more.
So he's really gone really leading the charge in this
Bitcoin institutional adoption. Yeah.
Your conversation with him is a really interesting one, your series of, I mean,
series of episodes, I suppose, but it's only a couple of conversations.
I guess. Yeah. We, we, we recorded twice, five and a half hours each. Yes.
So it's about 11 hours of content and yeah, thank you.
It's a lot of people have said that, uh,
it's the best first principle thing they've ever seen on Bitcoin,
which I take no credit for that at all. I mean,
I just sat down with a guy and unleashed him. He's he's just a beast. Yeah.
Uh, but it's fascinating that, uh,
his long term vision with it, I mean,
I'm not sure I'm all <laugh> philosophically bought in,
but if he's right,
if this set of ideas are as powerful as, um, he describes,
as you described that this, this would change the world,
which as you say is funny that a company like MicroStrategy, uh,
might be <laugh> the, the, the, the company that has the,
the biggest macro effect, uh, on our economy and our world. Yeah.
The conversation reshaped my world view a lot too,
because he framed money as energy,
which I had often thought of money as time. Um,
and it explored those connections a lot in my writing,
but looking at it as energy and then his supposition that
the purpose of life is to basically channel energy across space and time.
So we're just trying to figure out how to channel more energy you across space
and time toward the satisfaction of aims and, uh,
his definition, his answer to that question,
what is money is that money is the highest form of energy a human being can
channel.
So it's a claim to all other forms of energy we can manifest in the world.
And that just completely reshaped how I see it brought in this whole,
other to my, my intellectual explorations of money.
Can you elaborate.
On that a little bit? So I understand money is time,
which in itself a really powerful idea.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> but money is energy and channeling.
Energy. Can, can you break that apart? Yeah.
So I guess I definitely have to check out the whole series to really get his
perspective, but I'll do my best to condense it. Um,
life itself, all forms of life are, you know, they're dependent on energy,
right? Energy fuels, everything fuels life in action and motion and all of that.
And we could say that, uh, maybe like a plant
is harnessing solar energy and then reallocating that into
growth. So it's aim is to grow towards the sun, right?
So it's allocating energy towards its goal of the harnessing more solar
energy kind of thing. So, and humans too,
uh, have evolved to figure out how to harness energy in different ways
to satisfy higher and more complicated aims.
So the original energy network, uh, that he may,
that he referenced was fire, right.
We actually learned to WID fire as a tool in and of itself.
So not only are we learning to channel energy,
but we actually learned how to isolate energy as a tool in and of itself.
And so we went into that, how harnessing fire had,
had changed human being actually, um,
this is one of the earliest examples too,
of a co-evolution between tool and our biology, because when we developed fire,
we developed cooking and cooking is you can kind of think of it as pre-digestion
in a way where liberating these macronutrients or making things that otherwise
would not be digestible edible. Um,
and it increases the efficiency by which we extract nutrients from food.
That's what cooking does. So when we figured out cooking, we free,
we liberated all these digestive resources, um,
that were reallocated towards higher cognitive development. So there's this,
uh, evolutionary path between figuring out fat and us becoming smarter, which,
which was interesting. Um, some other early examples he gave,
he went into were missiles and hydraulics. So missiles being,
we learned to hunt at a distance. You know, we can't bring down a wooly mammoth,
maybe with Spears and, and, uh,
up close in personal force,
but we could with Spears and javelins and slings and whatnot.
And then he went into, uh,
how we've used water to channel hydraulic energy.
So we can basically overcome gravity. We could move, you know, um,
there's theories that the pyramids were constructed using the blocks were moved
using hydraulic energy or using water. Uh,
clearly we use like cargo ships and whatnot to move things much more efficiently
across water than we could the land. So this,
his whole view was how we keep figuring out better ways or more
efficient ways to harness energy and, and channel it. And in that
perspective,
money has always represented a claim on all other forms of energy.
So whatever energy couldn't be channeled towards something useful,
and the economy historically would go into gold mining.
So gold became this residual, this economic,
this token of the excess energy created by the market
economy. And then you could take that token of energy and use it,
use it to redeem for any other form of energy or any other products of energy
itself. So I it's, I guess,
guess it's my best approximation of it.
And it just really shattered my worldview again,
cause I'd always thought about it as time.
Like we spend time sacrificing to obtain money that within redeem for
commencement sacrifices from other others,
but I'd never considered it purely as energy.
And then it also ties back into gold where
there was an energy expenditure necessary to obtain gold.
So there's a proof of work associated with obtaining gold that protected its
market value. Right? So you had to expend again, if market,
if market value of Gold's 2000 an ounce,
you had to expend 1900 an ounces mining. So it kept, uh,
producers honest in a way.